# BikeSharing
https://public.tableau.com/profile/lucas5891#!/vizhome/Citibike_challenge/Story1?publish=yes

## Overview
  * This project analyzes citibike data gathered from New York City in August 2019. This data will be used to pitch a similar idea in Des Moines. Investors would want to see the reasons why a bike business could be successful away from the big apple.
  
## Results
  * There are several key takeaways from the data provided in august. The first point is that men significantly use the ridesharing bikes more than women. So the gender population of Des Moines should be analyzed to make sure that the right demographics are present for the business to be successful. Furthermore, the times of day where the the bikes are being used the most are between 7-9am and 5-7pm. These high usage times indicate that the bikes are most popularly used during rush hour times, which could mean that they are being used to get to and from work. To translate this properly in Des Moines, the city landscape of businesses needs to be analyzed to ensure enough workers for high bike usage.
  * Data of the starting and stopping points of the bike trips were plotted on a NYC map. It was evident that a majority of the traffic started and stopped in manhatten. As you got further away from the center of the city, there were less bikes being used. This data makes it clear that the bikes are a great substitute for cars. People in the center of a big city don't want to have to deal with the hassles of a car, and a bike sharing service provides a great alternative for individual transportation.
  * Lastly, the majority of bike riders are subscribers to the service. This would be beneficial because of recurring revenue from the subscriptions. People who use the bikes will most likely use them again, so they will generate consistent revenue. The bike sharing service in a city provides its population with a great option to get around. This option can also be fun for tourists as well!
  
## Summary
  * Overall, from the data used, a bike sharing business in Des Moines, or any city for that matter, will be successful. It provides a great alternative method of transportation. People will use these bikes to get to and from work and tourists will use these bikes as a fun way to tour the city. Given that the most popular bike times are during rushhour times, the most ideal time to maintain the bikes would be late at night or early in the morning. One further data point I would like to explore is how the bike usage changes with seasons. If bike usage dips down in colder seasons, then strategies will need to be implemented to make up for lost revenue. 
